We're extracting our category here in our component because we're getting our parameter there with the
help of navigation props.
Now actually I want to output the title in my header though.
Now you'll learn how you can configure debt header with the help of the navigation options.
So on the category meal screen component and therefore this is a function Dale for does this an object
we can add navigation options and you'll learn that this is a childless group object where you can set
up a header title and header title now should be my category name.
The problem here is that here selected category is available but that's inside of the component function.
That of course on the other hand is not something we can access here because this happens after the
function definition.
So we don't have access to the category we identified there.
That's a problem.
The good thing is navigation options can be an object if you have static hardcoded configuration values
but it also can be a function if you need a dynamic configuration that depends on changing data.
And of course the data we depend on here is changing because we're using one and the same screen for
different categories and therefore the idea and the title of the category changes every time you use
that screen one time we're using it for the Italian category.
The next time we're using it for the exotic category this function which you can also use this is of
course supported by rack navigation.
And if this is a function what you're passing to Navy navigation options react navigation will call
it for you and will pass in some navigation data so it will pass an object with some data that should
help you we'll have a look at what's in there in a second because we can simply log this navigation
data here.
Let's start with that.
Let's now go to this page and let's see what's in there.
If I expand this here this is the log I got.
And you see oh we got another navigation prop in the navigation data there we have actions we have navigate
pop push.
So basically what we knew we also have get parent there and that should be useful.
This because this will allow us to extract data here inside of our navigation options in the end which
should be super helpful so in the end we get the same navigation prop we all get on our component props.
So here we can now use navigation data dot navigation dot get param to get my category idea exactly
what we did in the component so we can repeat the code we had in a component and get the selected category
not just in that component but now also in this function which we use to setup our navigation options.
So now here we all get access to these select that category and now navigation options does function
if it is a function should of course return an object with your navigation options.
So what we previously directly set as navigation options when we only had hardcoded values now has to
be returned.
But now can use these dynamically derived data where the dynamically derived information here.
So now we can still set up a header title here and the header title now can be selected category dot
title.
This is how we can dynamically derive this and therefore now if you go back you see Italian here you
see quick and easy here you see German here and that just works.
Please note that you all by default get a back button text which is the previous screen's title that's
no default feature reactive negation gives you we see back to meal categories here because we're coming
from meal categories only on quick and easy where this would be too long.
Next to this a bit longer title it reverts and defaults to back which is a good default behavior which
you could override but which I'm happy with here on Android we don't have a back text but of course
we have a back button and there the header also is populated correctly for the screens which is loaded
so that is how we can always get our data dynamically here in New navigation options one issue you might
notice though which is most visible here on Android is that the header on the new screen we're loading
doesn't have the same styling as our header here it doesn't have the background color namely no of course
that's easily fixed because on navigation options off the category meals we can simply bring in the
had her style and had her tint color we set up here on the other screen as well so we can copy that
over here and that just means we have to import the platform API and of course our constant color.
So import colors from constants colors like this and when we do that we'll see that if we go there we
now have the same hairstyle for this new page which is of course what you typically want what you don't
typically want however is that you have to copy the same configuration to every screen because in this
app we don't have that many screens we can certainly do that but in bigger apps where you have more
screens that would be super annoying and super cumbersome so it's definitely not the way to go there.
So let's have a look at an alternative in the next lecture.